---
# An instance of the Blank widget.
# Documentation: https://wowchemy.com/docs/page-builder/
widget: blank
active: true

# This file represents a page section.
headless: true

# Order that this section appears on the page.
weight: 20

# Section title
title: Working Papers

# Section design
design:
  columns: "2"
---

    
:page_facing_up: The Electoral Connection and the Representation of Geographical Interests. Evidence from the Post-War Italian Senate.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<br>
Most democracies define electoral constituencies geographically, that is by means of territorial boundaries. How do such arrangements influence the behaviour of national representatives? I argue that re-election incentives encourage legislators to deliver geographically oriented goods and services in a discretionary manner, something I refer to as territorial representation. To test this proposition, I exploit the unique variation in district representation generated by the voting system of the post-War Italian Senate. Instead of a fixed number of senators per district, the system in place between 1948 and 1992 allowed for variation within districts over time in the number of elected senators. I use this variation to test the hypothesis that districts connected to the elected senators receive more intergovernmental transfers, are targeted by more local bills, and feature more frequently in parliamentary debates and questions than unconnected districts. I further predict this effect to be moderated by the different strategies of government and opposition members. Accordingly, the increase in transfers and local legislation is stronger when the elected representative belongs to the governing coalition. By contrast, members of the opposition have a stronger impact on the amount of non-distributive activities targeting the district, namely local parliamentary questions, and speeches. Results will contribute to the literature on the electoral connection in multiple ways. On a theoretical level, I develop a unified framework for understanding a variety of geographically oriented efforts that are often analysed separately, such as constituency service, legislative particularism, and pork-barrelling. I also theorize and test heterogeneities in the effect of re-election incentives between government and opposition members that have been neglected in previous studies. Empirically, I get at the effects of re-election incentives using the natural variation in district representation created by the Italian voting system, thereby avoiding the standard comparison between politicians with and without term limits.
</details>

</br>

:page_facing_up: The Day After. The Bandwagon Effect of Electoral Outcomes. (with [Roberto Valli](https://www.robertovalli.com/)) 

<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<br>
How do partisan preferences develop in the aftermath of an election? Robust evidence suggest that electoral winners and losers display important differences in terms of satisfaction with and trust in the political system. By contrast, little is known about the effects of electoral outcomes on individuals’ preferences for political parties. In this paper we argue that elections can powerfully shake partisan attachments, with losers shying away from previously voted parties, and winners remaining safely attached to the bandwagon. We thus derive and test hypotheses both at the party’s and at the voter’s level. First, we predict winning (losing) parties to increase (decrease) support among the electorate in the aftermath of the election. Second, we predict winning (losing) voters to be less (more) likely to change party preference. To test these propositions, we leverage both monthly opinion polls for political parties across 12 European countries, and household panel surveys for Switzerland, UK, Germany, and the Netherlands. Our analysis relies on a difference-in-differences estimator to study the impact of elections on party support, and on a within-individual estimator to look at the changes in voters’ partisan preferences before and after the election. Our contribution is two-fold. First, we contribute to the winner-loser gap literature by showing that winners and losers update their partisan preferences differently following an election. Second, we expand our understanding of opinion polls by showing how electoral results can dramatically affect patterns in voting intentions.
</details>

</br>

:page_facing_up: Minority Status and Support for Supranational Integration (with [Roberto Valli](https://www.robertovalli.com/))
</br>
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
Are minority individuals particularly in favor of supranational integration? We argue that supranational integration challenges the nation-state, a form of statehood that grants the highest status and the most opportunities to the country’s titular nation. We look at attitudes towards the European Union and hypothesize that minority individuals support European integration more than the “core nationals.” We test this largely overlooked intuition using multiple rounds of the European Social
Survey. Our empirical strategy relies on coarsened exact matching to identify suitable counterfactuals between minority and majority individuals. Results indicate a positive effect of minority status – operationalized as ethnic and linguistic traits, and parents’ origins – on support for European integration and, conversely, a negative effect on support for eurosceptic parties. The effects are robust to various specifications and estimation strategies. We further show that among two sets
of countries with peculiar dynamics of ethnic politics, that is states with large Russian minorities and multinational states with formal power-sharing arrangements, majority-minority differences in EU support work differently yet in line with our theory. Altogether, our contribution demonstrates the relevance of ethnic traits for supranational institutions’ support, and how one’s evaluation of a political system depends on contextual judgments about ethnic biases.
<br>

</details>

</br>

:page_facing_up: Swiss Popular Initiatives and the Cultural Integration of Minorities. (with [Fanny Puljic](https://sites.google.com/view/fannypuljic/home), [Roberto Valli](https://www.robertovalli.com/))
</br>
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
Immigration has been a source of controversy and resentment in Western societies over the past 30 years, strengthening political parties that mobilize against migrants and residents with migratory background. Anti-migrant resentment takes various forms, from support to far-right parties to discrimination and protest. However, in Switzerland these sentiments also manifest as popular initiatives that pit migrant and “native” communities against each other. While previous studies have mostly focused on labor market and educational outcomes of minorities, we specifically look at the cultural integration of immigrants.
The goal of this project is to address the effects of anti-immigration attitudes on the migrant communities by quantitatively assessing the consequences of the 2014 Swiss popular initiative against mass immigration. We focus on two outcomes that accurately measure immigrants' response in terms of cultural integration. First, we study how the popular initiative affects individual choices concerning the ethnicity of the offspring's name. Second, we study the effects on the probability of mixed marriages between migrants and natives. We consider first names as a way for people to signal their cultural identity, and intermarriages as a measure of the intensity and quality of interactions between the two communities.
Our analysis is based on the complete Swiss census from 2010-2020, including all civil status events (e.g., births, marriages, deaths) and migratory movements. We complement this data with nationally representative surveys, including individual-level demographics (e.g., spoken language, religion, education, and employment), and household-level information.
To determine the effect of the popular initiative on the ethnic character of the names given to the offspring, we exploit within-family variation, i.e., changes between siblings born before and after the initiative. In this way, we control for time-invariant family characteristics that influence naming patterns. Instead, to estimate the effect on the probability of marrying a Swiss person we compare individuals with similar characteristics who married before and after the vote. These characteristics include basic sociodemographics (e.g., age, gender), as well as individual ethnocultural (e.g., country of origin, religion, language) and grid cell-level characteristics (e.g., neighborhood ethnic composition, population, urban/rural).
Our paper contributes to the strand of economic and political science literature on the integration of the migrant population, by studying the effect of popular votes signaling societal resentment against migrants. Moreover, unlike most studies we move beyond labor-market outcomes to observe behavior that is highly informative of individual cultural preferences.
<br>

</details>